.TH AMSFTP 1
.SH NAME
amsftp \- two-pane terminal file manager for local files and SFTP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBamsftp [<location> [<location>]]\fR
Open the two-pane client with zero, one, or two locations.
.TP
\fBamsftp --workspace <name>\fR
Open a saved workspace.
.TP
\fBamsftp daemon <start|status> [--format human|json] | amsftp daemon stop --confirm stop [--format human|json]\fR
Start, inspect, or explicitly stop the local daemon.
.TP
\fBamsftp job <list|events|pause|resume|cancel> [arguments]\fR
Query or control durable Jobs through the local daemon; cancellation requires exact Job ID confirmation.
.TP
\fBamsftp helper status <SSH-alias> [--format human|json]\fR
Report whether an endpoint is using standard SFTP or an available optional enhancement.
.TP
\fBamsftp config <validate|print-effective|print-effective-keymap|reset-keymap> [arguments]\fR
Validate configuration, print versioned effective output, or explicitly reset keymap overrides.
.TP
\fBamsftp doctor [--endpoint <SSH-host>] [--format human|json]\fR
Run bounded read-only local checks and optionally test one SSH endpoint without prompting for credentials.
.TP
\fBamsftp upgrade [--format human|json]\fR
Upgrade a Homebrew or standalone macOS/Linux installation and safely preserve daemon state.
.TP
\fBamsftp support-bundle preview [--format human|json] | amsftp support-bundle create --consent <sha256> --output <absolute-path> [--format human|json]\fR
Preview the exact reviewed diagnostic archive, then explicitly publish it to a private no-replace local file.
.TP
\fBamsftp completion <bash|zsh|fish>\fR
Print a shell completion script with saved-workspace completion.
.TP
\fBamsftp --help\fR
Print command help.
.TP
\fBamsftp --version\fR
Print version and build information.
.SH DESCRIPTION
AMSFTP opens local and remote directories in a Vim-first, two-pane terminal workspace. It browses, previews, edits, searches, copies, moves, renames, and deletes files while long-running changes continue as durable background Jobs.
.PP
The local daemon owns provider sessions and Jobs. Leaving the TUI does not cancel background work; use the job commands to inspect or control it.
.SH LOCATIONS
.TP
\fB/absolute/local/path\fR
Open an absolute path on the local machine.
.TP
\fB<SSH-alias>:/absolute/remote/path\fR
Open an absolute remote path through a concrete host alias from ssh_config(5).
.PP
With no locations, AMSFTP opens the startup picker. One location replaces the active default; two locations set both panes.
.SH TRANSFERS AND JOBS
Copy, move, rename, and delete requests are frozen into Jobs before execution. Copy data is verified before the final destination is published, and a move keeps its source until the destination is committed.
.PP
Remote-to-remote copies use a bounded relay in the local daemon. Current public builds use standard SFTP and do not enable a production remote Helper or direct server-to-server transfer.
.SH SSH
AMSFTP delegates SSH configuration, host-key policy, authentication, ProxyJump, ProxyCommand, Agent use, and Kerberos/GSSAPI to the validated system OpenSSH client. It does not store passwords, private keys, Agent contents, Kerberos tickets, or authentication answers.
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 success; 1 internal; 2 usage; 3 configuration; 4 authentication; 5 network; 6 conflict; 7 partial completion; 8 user cancellation.
.SH FILES
Configuration, state, cache, logs, and the daemon socket use platform-specific owner-private directories. Run \fBamsftp config print-effective\fR to inspect effective settings without printing secrets.
.SH SEE ALSO
ssh(1), ssh_config(5)
